Data aware forms for non-standard databases

Though the [Forms Designer table list](FormsDesignerWorkingwithTables.htm) is only available for the native KCML database, [data aware forms](DataAwareForms.htm) can be used with any database by defining suitable [field variables](mk:@MSITStore:kcmlrefman.chm::/TutorialFields.htm).

- Define a row buffer which you can populate from your database and use the name of that variable as the [DataSource](tmp/PROP_DATASOURCE.htm) property on the bound controls.
- Define [field variables](mk:@MSITStore:kcmlrefman.chm::/TutorialFields.htm) specifying datatype and offset within the buffer for each of the bound controls.
- Set the [DataField](tmp/PROP_DATAFIELD.htm) property of each bound control to the name of the field that contains the column. Don't supply the leading dot. This can be done either programmatically or you can use the Forms Designer.
- Write a function which will populate the row buffer. This can be called in the Enter() event or before the form is opened to establish initial values. You may have navigation buttons on the form which can load other buffers as necessary.

Here is an example program showing binding from a static buffer. To execute the program in KCML simply click <a href="#nowhere" onclick="CopyTextToClipboard(&#39;PicDiv&#39;)">here</a> to copy the program into the clipboard switch to the KCML Workbench, clear out any existing code and press Ctrl+V to paste the example into the program.

DIM row\$100, N=5, count, ethis, x DIM n\$(N)30, salary(N), eenum(N) DIM .name\$=(1, 30), .salary=(31, "B4"), .eenum=(35, "B2") count = 0 WHILE count \<= N DO READ x IF (x == 0) THEN BREAK eenum(++count) = x READ n\$(count), salary(count) WEND - DEFFORM SalForm()={.form,.form\$,.Style=0x50c000c4,.Width=259,.Height=156,.text\$="Employee database",.Id=1024},{.ok,.button\$,.Style=0x50010001,.Left=203,.Top=6,.Width=50,.Height=14,.text\$="OK",.\_\_Anchor=5,.Id=1},\\ {.cancel,.button\$,.Style=0x50010000,.Left=203,.Top=23,.Width=50,.Height=14,.text\$="Cancel",.\_\_Anchor=5,.Id=2},\\ {.editgroup1,.EditGroup\$,.Left=10,.Top=20,.Width=187,.Height=127,.Id=1000},\\ {.editControl1,.kcmldbedit\$,.Style=0x50810080,.Left=107,.Top=36,.Width=45,.Height=15,.Id=1001,.ReadOnly=1,.DataSource=row\$,.DataField=.eenum,.EditGroup=.editgroup1,.label\$="Employee:"},\\ {.editControl2,.kcmldbedit\$,.Style=0x50810080,.Left=67,.Top=66,.Width=122,.Height=15,.Id=1002,.ReadOnly=1,.DataSource=row\$,.DataField=.name\$,.DBEnabled=1,.EditGroup=.editgroup1,.label\$="name:"},\\ {.editControl3,.kcmldbedit\$,.Style=0x50810080,.Left=102,.Top=96,.Width=53,.Height=15,.Id=1003,.ReadOnly=1,.DataSource=row\$,.DataField=.salary,.DBEnabled=1,.EditGroup=.editgroup1,.label\$="Salary:"},\\ {.cmdPrev,.button\$,.Style=0x50010000,.Left=209,.Top=87,.Width=43,.Height=15,.text\$="prev",.Id=1004,.Click()},\\ {.cmdNext,.button\$,.Style=0x50010000,.Left=209,.Top=107,.Width=43,.Height=15,.text\$="next",.Id=1005,.Click()},\\ {.cmdFirst,.button\$,.Style=0x50010000,.Left=209,.Top=68,.Width=43,.Height=15,.text\$="first",.Id=1006,.Click()},\\ {.cmdLast,.button\$,.Style=0x50010000,.Left=209,.Top=127,.Width=43,.Height=15,.text\$="last",.Id=1007,.Click()} + DEFEVENT SalForm.Enter() 'GetEmployee(1) END EVENT + DEFEVENT SalForm.cmdPrev.Click() 'GetEmployee(--ethis) END EVENT + DEFEVENT SalForm.cmdNext.Click() 'GetEmployee(++ethis) END EVENT + DEFEVENT SalForm.cmdFirst.Click() 'GetEmployee(1) END EVENT + DEFEVENT SalForm.cmdLast.Click() 'GetEmployee(count) END EVENT FORM END SalForm SalForm.Open() END DEFSUB 'GetEmployee(e) REM populate row buffer from the database IF (e \> 0 AND e \<= count) FLD(row\$.eenum) = eenum(e) FLD(row\$.name\$) = n\$(e) FLD(row\$.salary) = salary(e) ethis = e END IF END SUB REM some employees DATA 1, "Alan", 10000 DATA 2, "Betty", 20000 DATA 3, "Charlie", 30000 DATA 4, "Dorothy", 20000 DATA 8, "Edward", 14000 DATA 0
