Example program - Using OCX controls

------------------------------------------------------------------------

This example program shows how to use OBJECT notation to manipulate an OCX control embedded on a form. It uses the Microsoft web browser control that forms the heart of Internet Explorer. To use this OCX in your own application you should use the [Install OCX](FormsDesignerWorkingwithOCXControls.htm) option on the file menu of the forms designer and check the **Microsoft Web Browser** entry. It should be present on any client that has Internet Explorer installed.

The program gets an object reference to the OCX in the Show() event handler and uses it to load the page whose URL is secified in the edit box. It does this in the Validate() event handler for the edit box by calling the **Navigate()** method and passing it the text entered.

The program also traps the **OnDocumentLoad()** event which is triggered when a document has loaded. This is an event because the OCX loads asynchronously and when the Navigate() method completes the page may not be visible. Once loaded the event handler will use properties to update the title and status bars with the document title and its URL.

Notice that the edit box has its [ReturnEvent](tmp/PROP_KCMLEDIT_RETURNEVENT.htm) property set so that pressing RETURN will trigger the validate as well as tabbing off the control. There is also a toolbar with some buttons that call other methods to move back and forwards on the history list and to refresh the page. These all have error traps as there will be an O30 COM error thrown if the user tabs off the end of the list or tries to refresh a page before one is loaded (a more sophisticated program could track loads and disable these buttons when they did not apply, just as the real IE5 does.)

To execute the program in KCML simply click <a href="#nowhere" onclick="CopyTextToClipboard(&#39;PicDiv&#39;)">here</a> to copy the program into the clipboard switch to the KCML Workbench, clear out any existing code and press Ctrl+V to paste the example into the program.

REM Demonstrates the use of OBJECT notation to a\\ ccess an embedded OCX on a form. REM From KCML 6.00 on this is the only way to ma\\ nipulate an OCX. REM Uses the Microsoft "Web Browser control" whi\\ ch is the main component of IE4+ 00010 - DEFFORM Form1()={.form,.form\$,.Style=0x50c400c\\ 4,.Width=474,.Height=321,.Text\$="KCML Browser",.\\ Id=1024,.Menu=.mnuControl1},{.edi\\ tControl1,.kcmldbedit\$,.Style=0x50810088,.Left=2\\ 9,.Top=10,.Width=339,.Height=13,.\_\_Anchor=7,.Id=\\ 1000,.ValidateSelChange=1,.DropDo\\ wnFilled=1},{.cancel,.button\$,.Style=0x50010000,\\ .Left=402,.Top=9,.Width=50,.Height=14,.Text\$="Cl\\ ose",.\_\_Anchor=5,.Id=2},{.ocxCont\\ rol1,.kcmlocx\$,.Style=0x50010000,.Left=14,.Top=4\\ 4,.Width=447,.Height=247,.\_\_Anchor=15,.Id=1001,.\\ Definition=.ocxdef1},{.mnuControl\\ 1,.menu\$,.Id=1002,.prev={.Text\$="&Prev",.Picture\\ =.VCRLeft,.Select()},.next={.Text\$="&Next",.Pict\\ ure=.VCRRight,.Select()},.refresh\\ ={.Flag=128,.Text\$="&Refresh",.Picture=.Redo,.Se\\ lect()}},{.pane1,.status\$,.Style=0x50000000,.Wid\\ th=100},{.ocxdef1,.ocxdef\$,.OCX\$=\\ "Shell.Explorer",0x66.StatusTextChange(.Text\$),0\\ x6c.ProgressChange(.Progress,.ProgressMax),0x69.\\ CommandStateChange(.Command,.Enab\\ le),0x6a.DownloadBegin(),0x68.DownloadComplete()\\ ,0x71.TitleChange(.Text\$),0x70.PropertyChange(.s\\ zProperty\$),0xfa.BeforeNavigate2(\\ .pDisp,.URL\$,.Flags\$,.TargetFrameName\$,.PostData\\ \$,.Headers\$,.cancel),0xfb.NewWindow2(.ppDisp,.ca\\ ncel),0xfc.NavigateComplete2(.pDi\\ sp,.URL\$),0x0103.DocumentComplete(.pDisp,.URL\$),\\ 0xfd.OnQuit(),0xfe.OnVisible(.Visible),0xff.OnTo\\ olBar(.ToolBar),0x0100.OnMenuBar(\\ .MenuBar),0x0101.OnStatusBar(.StatusBar),0x0102.\\ OnFullScreen(.FullScreen),0x0104.OnTheaterMode(.\\ TheaterMode),0x0106.WindowSetResi\\ zable(.Resizable),0x0108.WindowSetLeft(.Left),0x\\ 0109.WindowSetTop(.Top),0x010a.WindowSetWidth(.W\\ idth),0x010b.WindowSetHeight(.Hei\\ ght),0x0107.WindowClosing(.IsChildWindow,.cancel\\ ),0x010c.ClientToHostWindow(.CX,.CY),0x010d.SetS\\ ecureLockIcon(.SecureLockIcon),0x\\ 010e.FileDownload(.cancel),0x010f.NavigateError(\\ .pDisp,.URL\$,.Frame\$,.StatusCode\$,.cancel),0xe1.\\ PrintTemplateInstantiation(.pDisp\\ ),0xe2.PrintTemplateTeardown(.pDisp),0xe3.Update\\ PageStatus(.pDisp,.nPage\$,.fDone\$),0x0110.privac\\ yStateChange(.privacyState)} LOCAL DIM OBJECT h + DEFEVENT Form1.Show() REM get a handle on the OCX. This must be here \\ and not in the Enter() REM event as the OCX is instantiated between the\\ se two events REM this should be a local variable for the form \\ so we release it REM when the form is exited OBJECT h = .ocxControl1 END EVENT + DEFEVENT Form1.editControl1.Validate() REM new URL, load it into the OCX h.navigate(..ValidateText\$) END EVENT + DEFEVENT Form1.mnuControl1.next.Select() h.goforward() ERROR DO REM ignore attempts to go beyond the end END DO END EVENT + DEFEVENT Form1.mnuControl1.prev.Select() h.goback() ERROR DO REM ignore attempts to go beyond the start END DO END EVENT + DEFEVENT Form1.mnuControl1.refresh.Select() h.refresh() ERROR DO REM ignore errors END DO END EVENT + DEFEVENT Form1.ocxControl1.DownloadComplete() REM update titlebar with the new page title .pane1.Text\$ = h.locationurl\$ .form.Text\$ = h.locationname\$ END EVENT FORM END Form1 Form1.Open()
