# KCML Workbench

The KCML Workbench is a major development of the exisiting KCML editor to provide a development environment comparable to other Windows based programming environments on the market today.

When the original editor was designed at the end of 1993, the design goals and environment were very different to that available today. Clearly we wanted a full screen editor to replace the existing line oriented one but we also wanted to work on the systems people were using at the time. WDW2 obviously, but also DW and VT100 and the like were also to be found. These were not similar terminals and in the KCML environment were all mapped onto the Wang view of keyboards and screen. During development, the editor sprouted a text mode drop down menu and text mode forms. This was quite advanced for a text application but no match for Windows applications. By the time the editor was released, WDW3 was out and had support for the kcml extended mode which uses a keyboard model based on pc keyboards and mouse, and new \$DECLAREs to provide simple forms and menus. The editor could exploit these to provide a proper menu, pupup forms and keyboard operations like any other Windows application (e.g. using shift and ctrl with the navigation keys to modifiy the behaviour). On other terminals behaviour was poor and quietly fogotten about.

Since being released the editor has not been altered greatly except by the advent of forms. Support for the forms editor and object browser were seamlessly tacked on the side. Features such as expansion and collapse of forms and events are well integrated and have greatly aided forms developments, but others such as the object browser have always seemed unfinished. Some enhancements have also been made, most noticeably the use of the Windows clipboard for cut and paste, but largely the editor is the same green screened editor it always was.

It is now 1999 and the world has moved on. The programmer is now expected to have a Windows 95 or NT machine, a larger screen, at least 32Mb of RAM and will run and develop KCML programs on the machine itself. WDW the terminal emulator has been replaced by KClient the forms client engine (its the same code), now an integral part of KCML allowing a much greater degree of integration.

The KCML workbench builds on the existing editing code, but now moves forward. It supports a multi-window environment, with optional windows for variables, watch points, objects, the return stack etc. The menus at the top are augmented by toolbar buttons and in most places a right click will give a context specific menu taking you where you want to go. By using separate windows and using toolbars, tree controls and other modern features the aim is to give the programmer as much help possible right away. Thus the object browser is a tree control with forms, controls, properties, methods and events all in a clear hieirachy next to your code. You can even drag items off the object browser and place them where you want directly in the editor. The display of programs no longer uses Wang colour and attribute sequences allowing much more efficient ways of displaying the program. For instance the coloured bar to indicate the currrent program line in the debugger used to be redrawn character by character as there was no change colour of line sequence on WDW. When typing in code, the client knows what the server will do, so there is no need to redisplay the line after each character type.

The workbench is only available if you have a 5.03 client and server. In this combination the new workbench editor is the default, otherwise behaviour is much as before. The old editor can be enabled from the client with the -z flag. There is also a checkbox option on the properties page. Very little functionality has disappeared. Right double clicking in the editor has gone because a single click now brings up a popup menu. The right double click option should always be available here. New features include the browser on the right. The first three toolbar buttons allow you to browse forms, options (largely unfunctional) and files. There is a new event log window and it is possible to set traps on controls and properties (making it very easy to track where things are being done to a control). The scroll bar is sort of functional and if you have a mouse wheel (once you have one you will never know how you managed without) then that will usually work as well. The suggest option (right click in the editor) is also available as ALT-CursorDown (to see what is does, try typing gb\_ and then hit ALT-CursorDown - a list of all variables beginning gb\_ will appear). If you break in with a form up so that it appears dark grey, then clicking on controls will automatically hightlight them in the forms browser.

## Latest Workbench Changes

(1998/11/13) Tool tips. Tool tipping generally works in the editor, display variables, expressions or function prototypes. Function prototypes are searched for in the foreground and global and are displayed along with any REM statements that imediately follow the definition. (A function prototype is a DEFSUB / DEFFN etc. This defines the arguments that must be passed to the subroutine.) Anything that is tool tipped is added to a history, as are useful expressions from any line that is recompiled after modifications (when you move off the line). ALT-up arrow displays the most recent 50 items in the list as a popup menu so that tool tipped text and recently used expressions may easily be pasted into the editor.

The loading and saving of files from the file brwoser is now done into separate windows. Thus it is possible to view several KCML source files at once. In future limited editing, searching and object browsing functionality should be available in these windows, as well as the ability to save. However, at present editing is possible but the results are unstable and liable to crash. It is possible to page through the window, select text and copy to the clipboard.

(1998/10/2) Help is back - there is a new help menu on the workbench menu, very much like the one in the origianl editor. This enumerates all KCML and associated help files that have been installed. The object browser implements context help using right click. Also edit action for forms type expressions now select the control in the object browser for you. e.g. if you SHIFT F5 on .treeControl1.text\$, the expression being inside an event handler for MyForm then MyForm.treeControl1 will be selected and highlighted in the object brwoser.

Save ascii is affected by \$OPTIONS RUN BYTE 54. If set to HEX(01), then the program is saved to a temporary file, the current program file is renamed to a backup file (deleting the current backup file if there is one) and then the temporary file is renamed to the save filename. Thus if there is a panic during the save then the orginal program is left intact. If the program to be saved is called filename, then the backupfile will be called .filename.bak (the . prefix ensures it is not normally listed under UNIX ls command).

(1998/9/8)The most recent version includes better window and toolbar support. The toolbar is now separated into chunks with each chunk being optional. The toolbar may also be spread over several lines. The position of windows is now remembered in the registry between sessions. (All registry values are current stoed in HKEY_CURRENT_USER\\SOFTWARE\Kerridge\KEditor. This key can be deleted if desired.)

Traps have ben reviewed. There is now a trap window to view and edit traps without having to use LIST TRAP. Breaking may now be conditional on an expression being met (the expression may be any expression that can be used in an IF statement). The trap editor also includes a display expression evaluator. This takes anything that may be used in a print statement, including print separators such as ',' and ';'. Each time the trap is reached these expressions are evaluated. If desired execution can continue always, break always, or break only when the specified condition is met. The tracking of traps has been improved in the editor and are much more reliable in expanded form code than before.

Evaluate expression has now been implemented and there is a new option to modify a value from the editor without having to use the console window. The large variable display is now a proper window.

It is now possible to use the form editor while debugging and in the global, although all controls are marked as read-only (similar to inherited controls) and changes are discarded. By keeping an exception list, it is now possible to collpase and expand events and forms in the global. Such operations are private to that session and are lost when the session terminates.

The mouse wheel is now supported in the editor, and the scroll bar is partially functional.

Forms operations have been extended to support dynamic creation and editing (using the forms editor) at run-time. There is also a new sub form concept that brings up a child form withing its parent's window. The form.open() returns immediately leaving the child form active within its active parent. The child form terminates with either an explicit form.terminate() or when its parent terminates.
