KI_OPEN

This call opens a table for rowset access. The handle must be supplied in all subsequent database calls referencing the table.

The access mode determines the operations that are allowed on a table. Mode "R" for read access is always allowed irrespective of how other users might have opened the table. If the table is opened in "R" mode, then write operations will fail with status code [KE_BADFUNCTION](errorcodes.htm). Mode "W" for read/write access is allowed provided no other user has the table open in exclusive use, in which case, the open would fail with status code [KE_ACCESS](errorcodes.htm). Most operations are permitted in "W" mode. Mode "X" opens the table in exclusive mode which guarantees that no other user has the table open for writing. A further mode "U", for unchecked, is provided for use by utility programs which need to open the table irrespective of its state, in order to repair it. Re-opening an already open table is permitted.

After an open, the sequential pointer is undefined. A [KI_START](KI_START.htm) is required to establish the pointer before any [sequential read](KI_READ_NEXT.htm) can be attempted.

Temporary files can be opened with KI_OPEN. For more information see [temporary files](mk:@MSITStore:kcmlrefman.chm::/temporary.htm).

When connected to an Oracle9 database tables may be opened in tranactional mode by adding a 'T' to the normal open mode, viz. "WT", this sub-mode is ignored when conected to a KDB database. By setting the sub-mode it allows the programmer to use Oracle's transactional abilities without having to add extra KI_BEGINs or KI_COMMITs, it is also allows rows to be locked without adding KI_BEGIN/KI_COMMIT blocks. A transaction is started when a KI_READ_HOLD or KI_READ_HOLD_PTR is successful on a table which has been opened in transactional mode, the ROWID of this row is stored internally and is used to determine when the transaction is finished. Subsequent KI_READ_HOLDs, KI_WRITEs, KI_REWRITEs, KI_DELETEs etc. become part of the transaction, any rows changed are not visible to other users and any held rows cannot be locked by other users. The transaction finishes when the row that initally started the tranaction is either unlocked with KI_UNLOCK, in which case we deem the transaction has failed, all changes are undone and all locks unlocked, or the row is re-written using KI_REWRITE or KI_WRITE_PTR, in which case we assume the transaction has succedded and we commit all changes and unlock all locks. Note, the KI_UNLOCK, KI_REWRITE or KI_WRITE_PTR that ends the transaction need not be issued on the same handle that started the transaction. Once the transaction has ended the database is back in auto-commit mode, all changes made are visible to other users immediately.
