Using KCML in an ASP environment

The ASP, or Application Service Provider, model is one where customers subscribe to data processing services provided by a third party who will then manage all DP aspects on their behalf. In some ways this is a return to the old bureau model. The high costs of managing in house applications had lead many companies to turn to ASP providers who have economies of scale and specialist staff.

From a KCML perspective there are two ways to run in the ASP directory:

- Each system can have its own KCML directory with its own lic.txt and TERMFILE. This is very flexible as it allows customers to run with different versions of KCML but it may make managing versions more difficult.
- All the systems share a common KCML directory. This is cleaner but it does mean that if KCML is upgraded for one customer, it has to be upgraded for them all. This may not be a big restriction if all the systems share a common KCML application.

Which ever choice you make you will still want to make the \$PSTAT shared memory segment unique to a system so that applications will not be aware that other systems exist. Normally all instances of KCML on a server, even if executing from different directories, share a common \$PSTAT and user count. To achieve this systems must be numbered (in a range from 1 to 65535) and the [SYSTEMID](EnvVars.htm#SYSTEMID) environment variable must be set to the appropriate number before KCML starts. KCML will check for this and create a special \$PSTAT segment for that system number. This means that the [\#PART](_PART.htm) numbers will be unique only within that system and will be reused on other systems. [\#TERM](_TERM.htm) terminal numbers are allocated from the file pointed to be the [TERMFILE](EnvVars.htm#TERMFILE) environment variable and there should be different files for each system.

Each system will also need its own license file and that file must contain a Systemid line appropriate to the system number. When ordering the license from Kerridge you must specify the system number you require. If each system has its own KCML directory then the file can have its usual name of lic.txt but on a shared system things are more complicated. As KCML looks for its license first in the directory from which it is executing and then in the directories of the PATH it is possible not put the lic.txt in the KCML directory and to use a system specific PATH to tell KCML which directory to use. Another scheme is to rename the file to lic.x.txt where x is the SYSTEMID number. If the environment variable exists then KCML will look for a file with that name first before looking for the generic name. All the licence files can then stay in the KCML directory.

If you are using the connection manager then a service should be setup for each system in the kconf.xml configuration file and the SYSTEMID and other system specific environemnt variables can be set in the \<environment\> section for the service. All users must be explicitly listed in the \<validusers\> section and the environment variable SERVICE set to the appropriate service name.

With several customer systems on the same machine the service provider will need to be certain that all data files are created with the right permissions. In Unix this means giving each system its own group, allocating the systems users to that group and making sure the umask is set to 007.
