### Printing a DOM tree in DOM2

The current [DOM level 2](http://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-2-Core/) specification does not standardize any method to serialize or output the DOM tree to a file, URL or memory buffer though this is to be addressed in DOM level 3 and Xerces 2.x does support an initial implementation of this as documented [here](DOM3print.htm). However the code to print a DOM tree using DOM2 methods is not complicated and an example is shown here. This also shows the use of attributes and checking for the type of a node. A more rigorous program might also want to check for processing instructions.

Note the use of the isWhiteSpace() method. This is a KCML extension which checks to see if a [text](tmp/dyndom.htm#Text) node value consists only of whitespace characters. Such nodes occur between tags if the original document had a tab or newline at that point. This is more useful than the DOM sanctioned IsIgnorableWhitespace() as it depends on the use of a DTD to define when whitespace is ignorable.

The example also shows the use of some constants which are defined in the object and thus displayed in the workbench function browser when the object is loaded.

DIM OBJECT x, OBJECT p, OBJECT doc, OBJECT elm, count, last=0 DIM \_ELEMENT_NODE=1, \_TEXT_NODE=3, \_CDATA_SECTION_NODE=4, \_COMMENT_NODE=8 OBJECT x = CREATE "dynamic", "dyndom" OBJECT p = x.CreateParser() p.DoSchema = TRUE p.DoNamespaces = TRUE p.parse("books.xml") REM get the Document object OBJECT doc = p.Document REM get its root element OBJECT elm = doc.DocumentElement count = 'printnode(OBJECT elm, 0) END DEFSUB 'printnode(OBJECT n, level) LOCAL DIM OBJECT e, t, count, i, acount, OBJECT alist, OBJECT a, b, nc t = n.NodeType REM print this node SELECT CASE t CASE \_ELEMENT_NODE REM tag count = 1 PRINT TAB(level);"\<";n.TagName\$; REM add any attributes OBJECT alist = n.Attributes IF (OBJECT alist \<\> NULL) acount = alist.length i = 0 WHILE (i \< acount) DO OBJECT a = alist.Item(i) PRINT " ";a.NodeName\$;"='";a.NodeValue\$;"'"; i++ WEND END IF CASE \_TEXT_NODE REM text, use KCML ext fn to check for whitespace only nodes IF (NOT n.isWhitespace()) THEN PRINT TAB(level + 4);n.NodeValue\$ CASE \_CDATA_SECTION_NODE PRINT TAB(level);"\<\![CDATA\[";n.NodeValue\$;"\]\]\>" CASE \_COMMENT_NODE REM comment PRINT TAB(level);"\<!-- ";n.NodeValue\$;" --\>" CASE ELSE REM some other node PRINT "node";t;"value '";n.NodeValue\$;"'" END SELECT REM and print its children OBJECT e = n.FirstChild nc = 0 WHILE OBJECT e \<\> NULL DO IF (nc++ == 0 AND t == \_ELEMENT_NODE) THEN PRINT "\>" count += 'printnode(OBJECT e, level + 4) OBJECT e = e.NextSibling WEND IF (t == \_ELEMENT_NODE) REM if no children we can use the short form of the tag IF (nc == 0) PRINT "/\>" ELSE PRINT TAB(level);"\</";n.TagName\$;"\>" END IF END IF RETURN count END SUB

For other XML DOM examples click [here](xerces.htm).
