# What's new in KCML 6.20

- [Records](#records)
- [Modules or libraries](#libraries)
- [Error handling](#err)
- [Forms](#forms)
- [Database](#database)
- [Xerces](#xerces)
- [Memory](#memory)
- [Forms editor](#kform)
- [Miscellaneous](#misc)
- [Compatibility](#compat)
- [Platform support](#platform)
- [Client support](#client)

### Records

- There is now support for a [LOCAL DEFRECORD](DEFRECORD.htm) definition in a subroutine.
- There is a simplified notation for FLD of a [FLD](FLD(.htm) such that FLD(FLD(a\$.b\$).c) can be written as FLD(a\$.b\$.c). This allows records to be fully embedded in other records.
- A similar grammar allows reference to another record or array of records using its SYM. Here the secondary records are not part of the main record but DIMed separately. The main record has a numeric field containing the SYM of the secondary record whose fields can then be accessed using expressions like FLD(a\$.b.c). This is effectively a shorthand for FLD(SYM(\*FLD(a\$.b))\$.c). Arrays of secondary records are allowed and are accessed with a subscript notation such as FLD(a\$.b\<n\>.c)

### Libraries

The term module has been deprecated in favor of the word library thus MODULE ADD now becomes [LIBRARY ADD](MODULE.htm). Both keywords may be used in a program but MODULE will be replaced by LIBRARY automatically when a program is saved.

The PUBLIC and PRIVATE keywords can be used in libraries to declare in [DIM](DIM.htm), [DEFSUB](DEFSUB.htm), [DEFRECORD](DEFRECORD.htm) whether the symbols are to be visible outside the library. Without these qualifiers the symbol is presumed to be PUBLIC and thus visible. Adding PRIVATE will guarantee that the symbol will not be visible to a program executing in the foreground or in another library. Programmers are encouraged to use PRIVATE wherever possible with code that can be encapsulated inside of a library and an explicit PUBLIC qualifier to define the functions, records and constants that make up the libraries public interface.

PUBLIC DIM is now used to define library variables replacing the COM convention of KCML 6.10 which is still supported for this release but which will be phased out in the next release of KCML.

There is a built in library containing DEFRECORD [definitions](tmp/kintfld.htm) for KCML constructs like \$PSTAT and \$MACHINE. It also contains some common \$DECLARE definitions. This library is searched after all the explicitly loaded libraries so any of these definitions can be overridden.

### Error handling

A new [TRY/CATCH](TRY.htm) mechanism can be used to protect a block of statements from run time errors. This can replace [ERROR DO](ERROR.htm) and the deprecated [ON ERROR](ON_ERROR.htm) statements. It supports nesting and the passing of errors up to outer handlers. Errors can also be thrown programmatically with the [THROW](THROW.htm) statement.

### Forms

New methods to help in the dynamic creation of forms. All the following may only be used in the Create event

- [CreateControl()](mk:@MSITStore:kcmlforms.chm::/tmp/PROP_FORM_CREATECONTROL2.htm) Create a new control
- [CreateDataBind()](mk:@MSITStore:kcmlforms.chm::/tmp/PROP_FORM_CREATEDATABIND.htm) Create a new databind control
- [CreateMenuItem()](mk:@MSITStore:kcmlforms.chm::/tmp/PROP_MENU_CREATE.htm) Add a menu item to a menu
- [CreateMenuItem()](mk:@MSITStore:kcmlforms.chm::/tmp/PROP_MENUITEM_CREATE.htm) Add a menu item to a men item
- [AddControl()](mk:@MSITStore:kcmlforms.chm::/tmp/PROP_TABBED_ADDCONTROL.htm) Add a control to a tab page
- [CreateTabPage()](mk:@MSITStore:kcmlforms.chm::/tmp/PROP_TABBED_CREATE.htm) Add a tab page to a tab control

New menu properties have been added to help the programmer:

- [MenuFirst](mk:@MSITStore:kcmlforms.chm::/tmp/PROP_MENUITEM_GETFIRST.htm) Get first menu item
- [MenuNext](mk:@MSITStore:kcmlforms.chm::/tmp/PROP_MENUITEM_GETNEXT.htm) Get next menu item
- [Index](mk:@MSITStore:kcmlforms.chm::/tmp/PROP_MENUITEM_INDEX.htm) Get menu item index

### Database

- The number of columns that can define a key has been increased from 8 to 16. This maximum value is defined by the built in constant \_KDB_MAX_KEY_COLS. This is a change to the table type (now 7.3) and once a table has been opened by a KCML 6.20 system it cannot be used on an earlier version of KCML. The [KI_INFO](mk:@MSITStore:kdb.chm::/tmp/KI_INFO.htm) call for a path now returns extra bytes for these extra columns.
- Deferred opening in [KI_OPEN](mk:@MSITStore:kdb.chm::/tmp/KI_OPEN.htm) will reduce memory. See [below](#memory).
- The minimum length of a word search word can not be set to 2. Previously the minimum was 3.
- The maximum number of KDB handles has been raised from 512 to 1024. It is defined by the built in constant [\_KDB_MAX_HANDLES](tmp/KdbConstantsHelp.htm).
- [KI_INFO](mk:@MSITStore:kdb.chm::/tmp/KI_OPEN.htm) can be used to get the integer value of a handle (in the range 1 to [\_KDB_MAX_HANDLES](tmp/KdbConstantsHelp.htm).
- [KI_START_BETWEEN](mk:@MSITStore:kdb.chm::/tmp/KI_START_BETWEEN.htm) and [KI_START_FIRST](mk:@MSITStore:kdb.chm::/tmp/KI_START_FIRST.htm) return a status of \_KE_ENDOFRANGE if and only if the max_rows condition has been met. Hitting the table's last row before the range condition will result in the normal status of \_KE_ENDOFFILE.

### Xerces XML parser

- KCML 6.20 will ship with Xerces 2.1 which adds support for DOM3 [serialization](DOM3print.htm) and for [progressive parsing](SAXcount.htm#progressive) using SAX2.
- The requirement to run with either the [-y switch](kcml.htm) or the [USEMALLOC](EnvVars.htm#USEMALLOC) environment variable has been relaxed for a number of Unix platforms including Linux and Unixware. It is still required for AIX but the C runtime memory manager will now attempt to release unused blocks back to AIX.

### Memory

- The memory used by KDB has been significantly reduced by introducing the concept of a deferred open on a table. The original [KI_OPEN](mk:@MSITStore:kdb.chm::/tmp/KI_OPEN.htm) call merely checks that the table can be opened in the required mode but only minimal memory is used at this time. When the table is subsequently accessed then KDB will fully open the table which may require loading various 8kb pages into memory. Other changes in KDB should help to reduce total memory used.
- There are also improvements in memory consolidation following a [LOAD](LOAD.htm) or [\$SPACE]($SPACE.htm).

### Forms editor

- New option added allowing the form definition to be edited by hand (**File\|Edit**). **NOTE:** You should only use this option if you know what you are doing as it will cause the form to be re-created based on your changes.
- New option added allowing a list of screen sizes to be maintained (**View\|Screen Sizes**). These screen sizes are drawn as part of the main editor window background (640x480, 800x600, etc.).
- New option added allowing form properties to be displayed (**File\|Properties**), including the number of controls, the form size, etc.
- When using the **Align\|Space Evenly\|Down** option and dbedit controls on an editgroup are selected, they will now be spaced 16 DLUs apart, starting from the top of the first control. Any single-line dbedit controls that are not the correct height (13 DLUs) will be updated.
- When creating new dbedits on an editgroup or dragging columns from the table list onto an edit group, the new control will be aligned and spaced automatically.
- Added a new option that will resize certain controls to ensure consistency (**Size\|Reset Control Sizes To Default**).
- Added a new option displaying the various accelerator keys used by the program (**Help\|Keyboard Map**).
- The **Display Control Extents** option now works for controls on nested tabs.
- When creating a new control by selecting one from the palette and then clicking on the form, the correct default size will now be used, fixing a problem where a tiny control could end up being created.
- You can now drag multiple-columns onto a form from the table list. Controls will be created in the order they were selected and will be aligned/spaced automatically if dropped on an editgroup.
- You can add new columns to a form by double-clicking the column in the table list. The new column will be added below the last column added and will be aligned/spaced correctly.
- Dropping a dbedit control on top of another dbedit in will no longer get the parentage wrong.
- A new option (**Edit\|Options\|Misc\|Include editgroup contents when setting tab order**) will suppress the display of tab positions for dbedits on editgroups when using the Edit\|Set Tab Order option. This is to support an upcoming kclient feature that will automatically set the control order.
- When setting the tab order, you can now use **Shift+Click** to set the starting tab position.
- When displaying the tab order, menu controls and the status bar will no longer be included in the tab position count.
- When displaying the tab order, if a tab page only has one control, the control no longer has its tab position displayed.
- When displaying the tab order, clicking on the form background will now toggle tab ordering off.
- Added a new option, **Tools\|Check Tab Order**, which will display the current tab position of controls on the form, with incorrect tab ordering displayed in red.
- Added a new option, **Tools\|Auto Tab Order**, which will automatically set the tab order on a form.
- It is now easier to click on an editgroup when setting the tab order for controls.
- When using the property list, you can now hit **TAB** to select the next control after you have changed a property.
- When selecting a dbedit control, the Label\$ property will now be selected automatically (if the previously selected property doesn't appear in the list).
- When setting the Label\$ property of a dbedit control on an editgroup, the dialog is now redrawn to fix a paint bug.
- The About dialog has been replaced.
- Anchor code changed to fix a problem selecting some controls (such as a frame on a tab for example). Anchored controls on tab pages will now be repositioned correctly when the tabs are sized.
- Added a new option, **Tools\|Control Events**, that allows you to choose which events are set when creating new controls.
- When adding a tab control or frame to a new form, you can now simply click to create a control that will fill the form client area.
- When creating a new form, a dialog box is now displayed allowing you set form properties. You can choose the form size, frame options (menu, toolbar, status bar), which buttons to include, as well as creating some standard frame/tab controls.
- DBEdit controls on editgroups will now have their tab order set automatically. Controls will be sorted left to right and down.
- The screen size guide lines will now take the size of the menubar and toolbar into account.
- If you hold down the **SHIFT** key when selecting controls, each click will cycle through any controls under the cursor, making easier to select overlapping controls.
- When right-clicking on a tab control, the list of tab pages is now displayed on the menu, allowing easy access to hidden pages.
- When editing a form that has a menu, the menu control is no longer displayed. Instead, a special menu icon will be displayed in the forms caption bar. Simply click this to edit the menu.
- Added a new option (**Edit\|Options\|Misc\|Assume Large Toolbar Icons**) that will ensure kform takes the size of a large toolbar into account when displaying the screen size guide-lines (and when creating a new form for a specific screen size).
- Added a new option (**Edit\|Grouping\|Set Group Events**) allow the events for any button groups to be set.
- You can now quickly **copy a control** by holding down the CTRL key whilst dragging an existing control. When the mouse button is released, the selected control will be copied and pasted to the new location.
- Menu items will now be checked for accelerators when exiting kform.
- Added a new option to kform32 (**Size\|Size to Fit**) that allows a tab, frame or editgroup to be sized to fit the available parent client area. The control will be sized so it is 4 DLUs away from the nearest controls.

### Miscellaneous

- [REDIM LET](LET.htm#redim) allows strings to be sized to exactly the right size. Also [LOCAL DIM](LOCAL_DIM.htm) of a string to zero size is now supported. These can be helpful with rarely used error messages.
- Strings can be concatenated using the & operator when passed as an argument to a function.
- The %S descriptor in [\$PRINTF]($PRINTF.htm) will not strip trailing spaces from strings.
- Access to the workbench is now conditional on the client computer having a suitable support licence.
- Setting STR([\$OPTIONS RUN]($OPTIONS_RUN.htm#BYTE61), 61, 1) to 0xFF sets the current language to UTF-8 for the [\$PACK]($PACK.htm) and [\$UNPACK]($UNPACK.htm) UTF-nn conversions.
- The GOSUB keyword is not required when invoking a function via a SYM value. The SYM value of a function label will now persist across a LOAD.
- The [RENAME OBJECT](RENAME.htm) immediate mode command allows forms to be renamed or OBJECT variables to be renamed.
- [\$OPEN]($OPEN.htm) can now be used as a function returning a status value which can then be tested in a program.  This avoids the use of a line number.
- [\$COMPLIANCE]($COMPLIANCE.htm) 3 forbids the use of line numbers as labels.

### Compatibility

- KCML 6.20 will now expect to be able to evaluate fields at resolve time. If they are not defined in the current program then it will search the list of loaded libraries looking for a definition. In practice this is a change to the default value of byte 49 of [\$OPTIONS RUN]($OPTIONS_RUN.htm#BYTE49) which is now set to HEX(07) rather than HEX(00) as in previous versions. To be compatible with earlier behaviour you can reset this byte or set the OPTIONS_RUN_49 [environment variable](EnvVars.htm#options_run) to "00"
- The KCML workbench will not be available unless either the server license file contains a support entry enabling for all users or unless the client has a client support licence enabling it.
- The kat and ucompile utilities are no longer supplied.
- [SYM](SYM(.htm) values and the handles allocated by [KI_ALLOC_HANDLE](mk:@MSITStore:kdb.chm::/tmp/KI_ALLOC_HANDLE.htm) are now encoded as large numbers rather than small integers and if packed into a field must be packed with the [FP pack type](packspec.htm#FP). In previous version of KCML both these types of number were small enough to be packed using BIN(4). This is no longer the case.

### Platform support

All Unix versions of KCML 6.20 have support for large filesystems and can address files greater than 2Gb. They are all compiled for 32 bit Unix kernels.

| Operating system | Minimum version | Comments |
|----|----|----|
| Sun Solaris | 8 |  |
| HP-UX | 11 |  |
| AIX | 4.3.2 |  |
| Linux | 2.4 kernel and glibc 2.3 | E.g. Redhat 8.0+ |
| Unixware | 7.1.1 |  |
| SCO Openserver | No longer supported | Can run the Unixware 7 binary using the [SCO BCM](http://ou800doc.caldera.com/SDK_porting/osr_bcm_overview.html) compatibility library |
| Compaq Alpha TrueUnix | No longer supported |  |

Windows versions of KCML are available both with and without large file support.

### Client support

Kclient is available in two versions

A Unicode enabled version that will only run on NT4, Windows 2000 and XP. This supports multiple code pages on a form.

A localized client that understands a Unicode enabled server but is limited to the codepage used by that version of Windows. This version will run on all Windows implementations including Windows 95. Note that Windows 95, 98 and Me are limited in the complexity of the forms they can display as a consequence of resource limitations inside these versions of Windows.
