Wyse *nnn* with boxes

KTERM=wy*nnn*box

These are exactly the same as the [Wyse 60 terminals](TextTermWy60.htm) described in the previous section except that it will attempt to simulate the full 2236 character set and box graphics by using soft fonts. The *TERMINFO* description assumes that the terminal will be loaded with two special soft fonts which reproduce the full US 2336 character set (wyfont1) and also allow box graphics by over scoring (wyfont2). These fonts should be sent to the screen with the UNIX *cat* command at login time. The time taken to load both fonts can be up to 20 seconds. The default *.profile* installed by the *kcmladmin* program will automatically send the font to the screen if the value of the *TERM* environment is wy60, 120, wy99, wy160 or wy325. It will also set the *KTERM* environment variable to wy*nnn*box or wy*nnn*box. The value of *TERM* should be set as wy*nnn* as UNIX will not have any information about the terminal types wy*nnn*box and wy*nnn*box and therefore some UNIX programs may not work correctly. With both fonts are loaded a Wyse can draw box graphics correctly though the box segments above a highlighted character will be highlighted also. There is no character compression capability so screen draw speed will be inferior to a Wang 2336.

If after the font is loaded some characters such as p's, g's, y's etc. have parts of them missing, then alter the character cell size in the terminals set-up menu. It should be set to 10x16 on most Wyse terminals. If you alter the cell size you must then re-load the font, i.e. logoff and login again.

If you do not wish to load these fonts or your terminal is a clone or an emulator which does not support font loading you should modify the *.profile* by removing the line which sends the font to the screen ( cat \$KCMLDIR/wyfont\[12\] ) and remove the KTERM=wy*nnn*box entry. Alternatively edit the *TERMINFO* description to comment out the box drawing capabilities. Also the terminal will be forced into 25 line mode. The original number of lines will not be restored on exit from KCML. This may require that the wy60 entry in */usr/lib/terminfo* is also changed to 25 lines in order that programs such as *vi* can work correctly.

Note that some UNIX implementations may not have entries in the terminal database for modern Wyse terminals. If you find that the UNIX shell will not accept a terminal type of, for example *wy160,* while running some UNIX shell programs such as the *vi* editor, then the problem may be cured by copying or linking the UNIX *terminfo* description to the new terminal type, e.g.

cd /usr/lib/terminfo ln w/wy60 w/wy160
