Remapping the keyboard

Remapping the keyboard with TERMINFO

Re-mapping the keyboard is perhaps best done by terminal type in the *TERMINFO* file for that terminal using the map feature. For instance on a vt220 terminal to translate the ISO character 'ö' which sends HEX(F6) to the 7 bit equivalent of HEX(7C) include:

map(\x7C)= \xF6

in the vt220 section of *TERMINFO/src*. This mapping is then fixed for all terminals of that terminal type. *TERMINFO* provides the simplest way of handing terminal differences by terminal.

Remapping the keyboard with \$TRAN

Single keys can be translated under program command with the [\$TRAN /001]($TRAN.htm) statement which defines a 256 element translation table for simple keys. Multi-character sequences are not translated this way. See the [\$TRAN]($TRAN.htm) statement for more information. Because \$TRAN ignores multi-character sequences, to translate function keys under program control the [\$KEYBOARD]($KEYBOARD.htm) statement may be used, see below. To remap the 'ö' character of the previous example using \$TRAN try

STR(\$TRAN /001, VAL(HEX(F6))+1, 1) = HEX(7C)

Re-mapping the keyboard with \$KEYBOARD

The [\$KEYBOARD]($KEYBOARD.htm) statement can be used to allow a program to control the Kclient keyboard mapping. A utility [editkb](editkb.htm) can be used to map [Windows Virtual Key codes](vkcodes.htm) to KCML equivalents. The string generated by that utility can be pasted directly into the program.

There is an older usage for \$KEYBOARD in DOS KCML which is still supported for compatibility. It used a 576 byte string defining two translation tables, one for simple keys and one for complex keys. The exact definition of a complex key was controlled by the KCML implementation but basically simple keys send single characters and complex keys send multi-character sequences. By setting a bit in a bit map the resulting translated key can be labelled as a function key. A DOS utility KYBEDIT.EXE is shipped with DOS versions of KCML4 to edit these tables and the -b switch to [tik](tik.htm) could generate them from TERMINFO definitions.
