# <span id="tfintro"></span>Introduction

KClient can operate as a text terminal emulator, or as a forms engine for KCML or to support a hybrid application with some parts in text and some parts using forms. Using KClient should feel very much like using any other application on the PC.

The typical UNIX KCML login will start with a .profile that sets some environment variables then replaces itself with a KCML application. When the application terminates the connection is terminated and KClient closes as well. In an entirely forms based system the login splash remains on screen until it is replaced by the first form of the application. After selecting "Exit" from the application the last form will disappear and the KClient application will have terminated. Mixed, or entirely text based systems are similar, with a text mode screen appearing when the first visible text output reaches the client (control sequences do not count). For an NT server based KCML there is a similar pattern of operation, except that there is no .profile and the KCML process is started immediately.

Some UNIX login .profile scripts present the user with a menu or other input request and by default will appear to hang when connected from KClient and the login splash window will not go away. This is easily verified by selecting the "Text Window" option from the System Menu of the splash form which will expose the text window and allow you to conbtinue. The text window can be forced up every time with the "-t" or "-T" options, but it is better to force the issue from the server end using selfid. This is described on the next page.
